TITLE: Public Transport Route Planner

SDG 11: Sustainable Cities

INTRODUCTION:
Our project is about creating a real-time Public Transport Tracking system focused on the 11th SDG: Sustainable Cities and Communities to address the critical problems that are common in public transports. One of these critical problems that we are trying to address and solve is the unreliable scheduling in urban transit networks, where in some cases public transports arrive not in time as written in their scheduling. By resolving this issue, commuters won’t have their time wasted waiting on public transports that might arrive late or even not come at all due to incidents, blockages, etc.

EVIDENCE/PROOF:
The SDG goal we chose, Sustainable Cities and Communities, aims in making cities and human settlements inclusive, resilient, reliable, and safe. Furthermore, Target 11.2  in SDG 11 emphasizes on making affordable and accessible public transport. But in many urban environments, especially in Indonesia, public transport systems are not very effective and hampered by a lack of real-time information.
A case example is when Indonesia’s public transport Transjakarta was fined Rp 3.2 billion in 2024, with the majority of the fines caused by Transjakarta’s services being frequently late, especially in terms of waiting time between buses or headway (source 1.0.). According to Dishub (Indonesia’s Jakarta Transportation Agency), they monitored Transjakarata and it was shown that Transjakarta had not met the waiting time standards that is set by the Government's Regulation, because of it the fine was imposed.
In a guidebook “Evaluating Public Transit Benefits and Costs” Todd Liatman (from the Victoria Transport Institute) explains how to create a comprehensive framework for evaluating the full impacts including the benefits and costs of a transit service or public transport. Todd Liatman explained how to evaluate and create best practices on developing a public transport service, in page 56 the guidebook explains “Travel Time Impacts” where it is stated “A minute spent driving in congestion, waiting for an unpredictable bus, or standing in a crowded transit vehicle is often much more costly than a minute spent pleasant conditions,” (source 1.1). This means that public transportation being late is not only costful to the commuters but also to the transport service provider.
Public transport being late does not only affect the costs for both commuters and the service provider, but is also a mental toll for the commuters themselves. Commuters rely on public transport to travel around in order to carry out their daily activities, and the importance of these activities cannot be neglected. An example of commuters that use public transport to go to their office for work, if the public transport is late, it will cause the worker to also be late, which may negatively impact their performance and can even result in a letter of warning. 
According to the research “Impacts of Real-Time Transit Information On Bus Passengers’ Travel Choices Based on Travel Behaviour Survey” (source 1.2, 1.5), they used a survey data of 600 bus passenger travel behaviours Xi’an, China, in order to assess the impact of RTI (Real Time Information) to the passengers/commuters. They confirm that providing passengers with accurate countdown information can dramatically reduce the waiting time anxiety and also improves the overall quality of the community itself.
Another paper (source 1.3) conducted a user scheduling model that forces commuters to make two simultaneous decisions that are based on system reliability. The commuters have to choose which bus to take, and when to arrive at the stop (either arrive early in order to hedge against lateness, arrive on-time based on the schedule itself, or risk a missed connection or a long wait).
This research uses “punctuality” as a reliability measure, where researchers use mathematics to define the bus punctuality as the probability of being on-time or late. The calculated probability is used as a key parameter for the public transport reliability. Afterwards, they used an impact on welfare (better known as cost) to calculate the total cost to the user which includes: schedule delay cost, waiting time cost, and crowding cost. The paper concludes that punctuality is an essential and a non-linear role in determining the commuter’s optimal strategy. The paper provides the analytical justification for a real-time tracking system to create a better prediction of punctuality or ETA (Estimated Time of Arrival) to convince the commuters on making better scheduling decisions to minimize their waiting time and maximize their satisfaction so they don’t drive away from using public transports.
Another research paper (source 1.4) suggests that delays of public transports can delay job accessibility by around 4-9% in a region, which heavily impacts its overall economic productivity. This research paper confirms that service unpredictability is a statistically significant deterrent that shows a calculated elasticity therefore poor reliability can cause a direct and measurable drop in passenger/commuter numbers.

WEBSITE FEATURES:
A map where users can input their start and end point to see the best public transport route and transit option. The selected route shows its stops, and tapping a stop shows the next 2 approaching vehicles.
- Vehicle ETA: Approaching vehicles are shown their ETA whether it’s real-time or scheduled.
- Live Position: Live positions of the approaching vehicles are shown, if available.
- Notices: Official or user-reported notices of service or route disruption are shown within the selected route.
- On-Time Insight: The selected route shows the on-time percentage based on previous trip data, if available.

REFERENCES:
1.0
https://megapolitan.kompas.com/read/2025/01/15/19243291/transjakarta-didenda-rp-32-miliar-tahun-2024-mayoritas-karena-sering

1.1
https://www.vtpi.org/tranben.pdf, page 56.
“Travel time unit costs can vary significantly depending on travelers’ needs and preferences, and travel conditions. A minute spent driving in congestion, waiting for an unpredictable bus, or standing in a crowded transit vehicle is often much more costly than a minute spent in pleasant conditions, sitting in a comfortable seat in a clean and comfortable bus or train, because passengers experience less stress and can rest or work.”

1.2
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/367956994_Impacts_of_Real-Time_Transit_Information_on_Bus_Passengers'_Travel_Choices_Based_on_Travel_Behaviour_Survey

1.3
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/364755355_The_impact_of_bus_punctuality_on_users'_decisions_and_welfare

1.4
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S096669232400005X

1.5
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/325136863_A_literature_review_of_the_passenger_benefits_of_real-time_transit_information